content/config/on/Blogofile_to_Hugo_migration.markdown, before:

---
type: post
tags: [ go, python, hugo, blog, web, css, html ]
title: "A migration story: from blogofile to hugo"
date: 2016-09-04T15:30:09+02:00
summary: "It's been a long time since I last posted on that blog. Besides the fact that I've 
    been too busy to update it, it's also because it was stuck in 2009. After the break,
    I'll discuss how I reworked this hamster propelled website into a nicer elegant looking
    blog, featuring a bit of 1989, that I hope you'll enjoy."
lang: english
logo: /img/hugo-logo.png
header_background: /img/hugo-bg.png
tweet: 772503516464185344
---

It's been a long time since I last posted on that blog. Besides the fact that I've 
been too busy to update it, it's also because it was stuck in 2009.

When I first heard of the concept of *static site generator* I was very
excited, so I used the first tool that existed — [Blogofile]. I hacked together
a site, made nice looking URL (on the `nothing.to/do` scheme 😉) , and made my
site xhtml 1.0 compliant (as was the hype at the time), and integrated my
existing dotclear theme into blogofile's templates. 

[![The site as it was last yesterday](/img/nothing-to-blog-legacy.png)](http://web.archive.org/web/20160401154950/http://i.got.nothing.to/blog/)

But since 2009, a lot of things changed. HTML5/CSS3 has taken over the world,
displays' resolution got much better and the kind and screen size of devices on
which you look at a website became a lot more diversified. The adaptive design
looks were'nt fit anymore… So what was then a comfortable and easy to read
blog, became an unreadable ugly website in just a few years. Thus an upgrade of
the look'n feel was needed.

Then another issue appeared, since I developed the first version of my blog, I kept
it up to date with blogofile with ease. But many parts of blogofile broke between
v0.7 and v0.8, meaning that upgrading the engine would mean a major rewrite of the
code. That made me consider engine alternatives…

Not long before I decided to revamp my blog, [my friend Dimitri](https://dmerej.info/) 
told me how happy he was using [Hugo]. I also considered other options, from
[Pelican] to [Jekyll]. What eventually drove me towards [Hugo] has been that it
featured a hundred of modern-looking themes, and that I was curious about
discovering The [Go language], on which I had good feedback.

And there I was, following the quickstart to compile and install the tool,
browsed through the hundred themes to find the one that met the minimal
requirements I had — non-compiled CSS, responsive design, focused on reading
comfort, and with a hack friendly license. So, the one I found matching most of
those criterias was minimalist's theme from [@rriegger] as adapted to [Hugo] by
[@digitalcraftsman].

[![Original theme](/img/hugo-minimalist-theme.png)](https://github.com/digitalcraftsman/hugo-minimalist-theme)

And there the fun begun. I took all my old markdown files and moved them in the
content folder. I've patched them to add the [aliases] parameter, so I could make sure
I wouldn't break the web, switched from the odd old `$$code` format for codes, to have
proper original markdown support (I would still need to choose an [highlighting strategy]
at some point), and that was done.

Then I went on to hack the theme to make the site header smaller, remove the "about"
part on the left of the articles — this blog really is about my hacks — and moved
the social-stuff icons to the top right, so they're there but not in the way. Doing
so, I had some fun implementing the blinking cursor (because [<span class="blink">`<blink>`</span> forever!](/img/userfriendly.org-blink.gif))
and give it the same look my old Amstrad CPC6128 had.

[![CPC6128](/img/amstrad-cpc6128.jpeg)](http://www.computinghistory.org.uk/det/2666/Amstrad-CPC-6128/)

So after some google search, I found a neat tip to make [neon glow], that once
a bit reduced would make a perfect case for CRT glow. Then I made the
background having some green halo, to feel like the old bubbly CRT of the
Amstrad, using a [radial gradient] as `background` property of the header.

``` css
.site-header div {
    background-image: radial-gradient(ellipse farthest-corner at 50% 50%,
                            rgba(0, 180, 0, 0.2) 0%,
                            rgba(0, 120, 0, 0.1) 50%,
                            rgba(0, 80, 0, 0.3) 75%,
                            rgba(0,0,0,0.5) 100%
                    );
}
```

I also wanted to give the same texture that old CRT had, so I borrowed from
[that demo](http://codepen.io/lbebber/pen/XJRdrV/) the pixel lines overlay (but
skipped on the flicker and on/off effects… as it'd be a bit too much ☺). As sophisticated
that demo looked, actually all I needed was to add:

``` css
.site-header h2::before {
    background: linear-gradient(
                    rgba(18, 16, 16, 0) 50%,
                    rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.25) 50%
                ),
                linear-gradient(90deg, 
                    rgba(255, 0, 0, 0.06),
                    rgba(0, 255, 0, 0.02),
                    rgba(0, 0, 255, 0.06)
                );
}
```

To make it complete, I found:

> " <span style='font-family: "Amstrad"'>The [Amstrad font]</span> " 

on Fonts2u drawn by Wesley Clarke, who I thank as he made it free to use.

I finally hacked together the [tag cloud](/tags), using a [CSS hack], added the path
within the blog within the [navigation partial]. And I was almost done…

Almost, because I ran into a [huge issue], as reported on the hugo's forum. My
problem was that either I root my blog at `/blog` and all my URL are like
`i.got.nothing.to/blog/hack/on/stuff`, or I don't and the default URL is
`i.got.nothing.to/` and then the URL are like `i.got.nothing.to/hack/on/stuff`.
What should have been an easy change, became a major wall I hit.

[I finally solved] that issue by adding a `blog` section, and a single post that will
get ignored, and which will list all data. Then, I made the index page a redirect
to the `/blog` path. And it was [almost](https://github.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/commit/215fd1c05d42a22be6e647673464c296b725b635) done!

I've also added a neat feature that enables you to edit the articles on both github or
gitlab, by clicking on the logos on top or bottom of the page ! And when I do tweet about
an article, you'll be able to reply to that tweet by clicking the link below !

So now, I'm happily blogging again, thanks to that blog propelled by the hamster in
a wheel!

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/Gjnpx6nps0yS4/giphy.gif)

[Blogofile]:http://www.blogofile.com/
[Hugo]:https://gohugo.io
[Pelican]:http://blog.getpelican.com/
[Jekyll]:http://jekyllrb.com/
[Go language]:https://golang.org/

[aliases]:https://gohugo.io/extras/aliases/
[highlighting strategy]:https://gohugo.io/extras/aliases/
[neon glow]:http://enjoycss.com/gallery/text_effects/39
[radial gradient]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/radial-gradient
[Amstrad font]:http://codepen.io/lbebber/pen/XJRdrV/
[CSS hack]:https://github.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/blob/master/themes/amstrad-theme/layouts/_default/terms.html#L8
[navigation partial]:https://github.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/blob/master/themes/amstrad-theme/layouts/partials/navigation.html#L2-L20
[huge issue]:https://discuss.gohugo.io/t/how-to-change-the-path-of-the-homepage/4022
[I finally solved]:https://github.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/commit/486314345a46d8f87a3aee66ff502ee0dcf5f92e

[@rriegger]:https://github.com/rriegger/MinimalisticBlogTheme
[@digitalcraftsman]:https://github.com/digitalcraftsman/hugo-minimalist-theme

Commit message:

Added tweet reference and added CI note to Blogofile→Hugo migration post 👍

content/config/on/Blogofile_to_Hugo_migration.markdown, after:

---
type: post
tags: [ go, python, hugo, blog, web, css, html ]
title: "A migration story: from blogofile to hugo"
date: 2016-09-04T15:30:09+02:00
summary: "It's been a long time since I last posted on that blog. Besides the fact that I've 
    been too busy to update it, it's also because it was stuck in 2009. After the break,
    I'll discuss how I reworked this hamster propelled website into a nicer elegant looking
    blog, featuring a bit of 1989, that I hope you'll enjoy."
lang: english
logo: /img/hugo-logo.png
header_background: /img/hugo-bg.png
tweet: 772503516464185344
---

It's been a long time since I last posted on that blog. Besides the fact that I've 
been too busy to update it, it's also because it was stuck in 2009.

When I first heard of the concept of *static site generator* I was very
excited, so I used the first tool that existed — [Blogofile]. I hacked together
a site, made nice looking URL (on the `nothing.to/do` scheme 😉) , and made my
site xhtml 1.0 compliant (as was the hype at the time), and integrated my
existing dotclear theme into blogofile's templates. 

[![The site as it was last yesterday](/img/nothing-to-blog-legacy.png)](http://web.archive.org/web/20160401154950/http://i.got.nothing.to/blog/)

But since 2009, a lot of things changed. HTML5/CSS3 has taken over the world,
displays' resolution got much better and the kind and screen size of devices on
which you look at a website became a lot more diversified. The adaptive design
looks were'nt fit anymore… So what was then a comfortable and easy to read
blog, became an unreadable ugly website in just a few years. Thus an upgrade of
the look'n feel was needed.

Then another issue appeared, since I developed the first version of my blog, I kept
it up to date with blogofile with ease. But many parts of blogofile broke between
v0.7 and v0.8, meaning that upgrading the engine would mean a major rewrite of the
code. That made me consider engine alternatives…

Not long before I decided to revamp my blog, [my friend Dimitri](https://dmerej.info/) 
told me how happy he was using [Hugo]. I also considered other options, from
[Pelican] to [Jekyll]. What eventually drove me towards [Hugo] has been that it
featured a hundred of modern-looking themes, and that I was curious about
discovering The [Go language], on which I had good feedback.

And there I was, following the quickstart to compile and install the tool,
browsed through the hundred themes to find the one that met the minimal
requirements I had — non-compiled CSS, responsive design, focused on reading
comfort, and with a hack friendly license. So, the one I found matching most of
those criterias was minimalist's theme from [@rriegger] as adapted to [Hugo] by
[@digitalcraftsman].

[![Original theme](/img/hugo-minimalist-theme.png)](https://github.com/digitalcraftsman/hugo-minimalist-theme)

And there the fun begun. I took all my old markdown files and moved them in the
content folder. I've patched them to add the [aliases] parameter, so I could make sure
I wouldn't break the web, switched from the odd old `$$code` format for codes, to have
proper original markdown support (I would still need to choose an [highlighting strategy]
at some point), and that was done.

Then I went on to hack the theme to make the site header smaller, remove the "about"
part on the left of the articles — this blog really is about my hacks — and moved
the social-stuff icons to the top right, so they're there but not in the way. Doing
so, I had some fun implementing the blinking cursor (because [<span class="blink">`<blink>`</span> forever!](/img/userfriendly.org-blink.gif))
and give it the same look my old Amstrad CPC6128 had.

[![CPC6128](/img/amstrad-cpc6128.jpeg)](http://www.computinghistory.org.uk/det/2666/Amstrad-CPC-6128/)

So after some google search, I found a neat tip to make [neon glow], that once
a bit reduced would make a perfect case for CRT glow. Then I made the
background having some green halo, to feel like the old bubbly CRT of the
Amstrad, using a [radial gradient] as `background` property of the header.

``` css
.site-header div {
    background-image: radial-gradient(ellipse farthest-corner at 50% 50%,
                            rgba(0, 180, 0, 0.2) 0%,
                            rgba(0, 120, 0, 0.1) 50%,
                            rgba(0, 80, 0, 0.3) 75%,
                            rgba(0,0,0,0.5) 100%
                    );
}
```

I also wanted to give the same texture that old CRT had, so I borrowed from
[that demo](http://codepen.io/lbebber/pen/XJRdrV/) the pixel lines overlay (but
skipped on the flicker and on/off effects… as it'd be a bit too much ☺). As sophisticated
that demo looked, actually all I needed was to add:

``` css
.site-header h2::before {
    background: linear-gradient(
                    rgba(18, 16, 16, 0) 50%,
                    rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.25) 50%
                ),
                linear-gradient(90deg, 
                    rgba(255, 0, 0, 0.06),
                    rgba(0, 255, 0, 0.02),
                    rgba(0, 0, 255, 0.06)
                );
}
```

To make it complete, I found:

> " <span style='font-family: "Amstrad"'>The [Amstrad font]</span> " 

on Fonts2u drawn by Wesley Clarke, who I thank as he made it free to use.

I finally hacked together the [tag cloud](/tags), using a [CSS hack], added the path
within the blog within the [navigation partial]. And I was almost done…

Almost, because I ran into a [huge issue], as reported on the hugo's forum. My
problem was that either I root my blog at `/blog` and all my URL are like
`i.got.nothing.to/blog/hack/on/stuff`, or I don't and the default URL is
`i.got.nothing.to/` and then the URL are like `i.got.nothing.to/hack/on/stuff`.
What should have been an easy change, became a major wall I hit.

[I finally solved] that issue by adding a `blog` section, and a single post that will
get ignored, and which will list all data. Then, I made the index page a redirect
to the `/blog` path. And it was [almost](https://github.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/commit/215fd1c05d42a22be6e647673464c296b725b635) done!

I've also added a neat feature that enables you to edit the articles on both github or
gitlab, by clicking on the logos on top or bottom of the page ! And when I do tweet about
an article, you'll be able to reply to that tweet by clicking the link below !

To make my setup complete, I had to be able to publish with a simple `git push` and
I had that possible thanks to `gitlab` and the external CI runners! I only had to add
the [`.gitlab-ci.yml`](https://gitlab.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml)
which contains the `hugo -d ~/www/nothing.to` command to deploy the site, ran as `www-data`! 👌

So now, I'm happily blogging again, thanks to that blog propelled by the hamster in
a wheel!


![](https://media.giphy.com/media/Gjnpx6nps0yS4/giphy.gif)

[Blogofile]:http://www.blogofile.com/
[Hugo]:https://gohugo.io
[Pelican]:http://blog.getpelican.com/
[Jekyll]:http://jekyllrb.com/
[Go language]:https://golang.org/

[aliases]:https://gohugo.io/extras/aliases/
[highlighting strategy]:https://gohugo.io/extras/aliases/
[neon glow]:http://enjoycss.com/gallery/text_effects/39
[radial gradient]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/radial-gradient
[Amstrad font]:http://codepen.io/lbebber/pen/XJRdrV/
[CSS hack]:https://github.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/blob/master/themes/amstrad-theme/layouts/_default/terms.html#L8
[navigation partial]:https://github.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/blob/master/themes/amstrad-theme/layouts/partials/navigation.html#L2-L20
[huge issue]:https://discuss.gohugo.io/t/how-to-change-the-path-of-the-homepage/4022
[I finally solved]:https://github.com/guyzmo/i.got.nothing.to.blog/commit/486314345a46d8f87a3aee66ff502ee0dcf5f92e

[@rriegger]:https://github.com/rriegger/MinimalisticBlogTheme
[@digitalcraftsman]:https://github.com/digitalcraftsman/hugo-minimalist-theme
